# Bird
The Bird Programming Language is a statically typed web-first programming language that compiles to WebAssembly, allowing full JavaScript interoperability. Bird is designed for speed and offers web developers an alternative tool for executing performant code in the browser without sacrificing flexibility or expression. The language features fundamental control flow constructs, such as if statements, loops, and functions. Bird also supports a strong type system supporting familiar primitive types, type aliases, user-defined structured types, and arrays. Bird also utilizes garbage collection, allowing developers to focus on logic instead of hunting down memory leaks. 


# Building The Project
For ease of development over multiple operating systems, the project should be run in a container. There is a `.devcontainer` folder that outlines the proper container. 

Our project is writte in `c++17`. It depends on `binaryen 105`, `GoogleTest`, `node`, `flex`, and `bison`. Our build system is `ninja`, and we generate it with `Cmake 3.20.0`.

After running the project in a container, follow these commands:

Create and enter the build folder: 
```
mkdir build && cd build
```

Generate a ninja file:
```
cmake .. -DTESTS=OFF -DDEBUG=OFF -GNinja
```

Run the makefile:
```
ninja
```

Run the executable:

repl mode:
```
./compiler 
```
OR

compiler mode:
```
./compiler /path/to/your/code 
```

OR

interpreter mode:
```
./compiler -i /path/to/your/code 
```

# Testing
All tests live in the `tests` folder. Each sub folder that ends in `*_suite` contains a suite of tests. Any file in the `tests` folder than ends in `*_test.cpp`, will be built. 

Each test suite depends on the helper namespace `BirdTest`.

To build and run the tests:

Create and enter the build folder
```
mkdir build && cd build
```

Generate the tests with the `TESTS` option:
```
cmake .. -DTESTS=ON -DDEBUG=OFF -GNinja
```

Run the makefile:
```
ninja
```

Run the tests:
```
ctest --verbose
```

Or run an individual test suite:
```
./const_test
```

Note that the `TEST` option is persistent, so be sure to turn it off after testing to decrease your development build times.

```
cmake .. -DTESTS=OFF
```

# The runtime environment
The modules generated by the compiler expect a specific environment. This environment is specified in the `run_wasm.js`. This file also allows for quick testing of generated wasm files.

Run the wasm binary generated by the compiler:
```
node ../tests/helpers/run_wasm.js
```

# Authors
Cole Carley

Aidan Kirk

Nicholas Langley

Nathan Wright

